---
title: "Let it be"
date: 2022-04-02
category: Life & Uncertainty
featured: true
archived: true
excerpt: "Let it be - on a more philosophical note, everything will pass. We often wake up every morning thinking about the past - the mistakes..."
---

Let it be - on a more philosophical note, everything will pass.

We often wake up every morning thinking about the past - the mistakes made, the regrets, carry forward anger, self-abuse and a litany of other feelings long gone. Even if those negative feelings only happened yesterday, our emotional fitness is immediately compromised the minute we wake up to a new day. Emotional fitness means clearing the mind of these negative thoughts so that we can cut through the clutter and achieve balance. Learning to let it be is a tool for achieving emotional fitness.

from the book **a monk's guide to happiness** -

"Our suffering isn’t caused by the things we want to push away or grasp, but rather by doing these very actions! This suggests a pretty straightforward solution to liberating ourselves from our unhappiness: Stop pushing away. Stop grasping. Just let it be"

We forget that we humans are but an inconspicuous grain in an obscure corner of a galaxy which itself is one of the 1000 billion odd galaxies in the visible universe. A dimension and size that is too large and difficult to even comprehend. Our life span is minuscule compared to the time scale of the universe. In all, everything we do and say is so insignificant that we should learn to “let go” .. to lead a good life for that short period of time that we are alive and conscious.

> *Accepting the new found inner peace*   
> *Life is what it is*   
> *Never better, never worse*   
> *Allowing the universe to conspire*   
> *to make something beautiful happen*   
>
> - an excerpt from the poem ["Awakening", Aug 2020](https://rhymeandreflection.blogspot.com/2020/08/awakening.html)

Emotions and thoughts come and go, and the world we live in is one of birth, growth, death and decay. By reflecting on impermanence, we can ease our attachment to appearances and possessions and develop a deeper sense of purpose.