---
title: "God"
date: 2022-03-13
category: Perception, Patterns & Illusion
featured: true
archived: false
excerpt: "With thousands of gods imagined through history, the real mystery may not be who God is, but why we overlook the living moment while searching for answers"
---

An excerpt from the book **outgrowing god** by Richard Dawkins - 

"God is a pretty awesome being. He’s all-seeing, all-knowing and all-powerful. He’s the superhero of superheroes. Nothing and no one rivals his incredible capacities.

This omnipotent, omniscient being is the God of the three main monotheistic religions of today – Judaism, Christianity and Islam. But there’s a problem. If this God is so awesome, so powerful, and so unique, how come he’s just one among many? In fact, only one among thousands.

That’s right. There are many gods other than the God of the main monotheistic religions. Thousands of gods have been worshipped throughout history and into the present day. The Vikings, for instance, were polytheists – they believed in multiple gods. Wotan was their primary god, but they had others, such as Thor, the thunder god who carried a hammer, and Snotra, the goddess of wisdom. The Greek gods and goddesses included Zeus, the king of the gods, Aphrodite, goddess of love, and Poseidon, god of the sea.

Even so, if we put together all the Greek and Viking gods along with the Muslim, Jewish, and Christian God, they’d still add up to just a tiny fraction of the gods that humans and all their religions have worshipped throughout history. Even the number of gods solely dedicated to the sun is huge: Many indigenous African religions have sun gods such as Anywanwu, Mawu, and Ngai. Australian aboriginal sun gods include Bila, Wala, and Karruar .. "

So what or who is God? Is there God? He or She?

I failed to see the reality in front of me - life.

Chasing dreams and tomorrow and regretting actions of the past while letting the present slowly crumble and disappear, until one day ..

> Emboldened I asked her identity  
> I’m your mother that nourishes you  
> I’m your sibling that cares for you  
> I’m your lover that makes love to you  
> I’m your shadow that stays with you  
> I’m anger, I’m hate, I’m love, I’m joy  
> I’m the creator, I’m the destroyer  
> I’m the one with a thousand names
>
> - an excerpt from the poem [She, Aug 2019](2019_08_19_she.html)
